So this is just gonna be a quick lecture on trying to understand why we're getting this weird glitch
here when we move from the right of this first spawn point.
Now, let's dive straight into this one without an introduction.
The idea here is that something must be going wrong with the collisions, collisions being those simplified
measures around the world that allow us to do fiscal physical calculations.
Basically, what can we stand on?
What can we not?
Because they're often simplifications of the measures that we can actually see for performance reasons.
So how do we see what the collision world looks like?
Well, fortunately, in our viewport, we can go to the lit mode, the button that by default says lit
at the top left and you can see has different view modes here.
Some of them are things like unlit res lighting can see the wire frames of the mesh is the one we're
interested in.
Is either the play a collision or the visibility collision.
Now, the difference being that the visibility collision is the more fine grained meshes and the player
collision is that coarse grain motion.
You kind of see the difference that I think that's quite obvious.
When you click between the two, you can see the coarse grain and fine grain nature of things.
But if we move over here from this particular angle, you can see that there is a mesh just poking through
here.
A collision mesh that we do not want.
Where is that coming from?
Looks like an error in our asset pack.
We click on it, you can see it says floor filler 27.
Not very helpful.
That's the name of the actor.
But if we go and have a look at its static mesh component and the details pane and have a look at its
actual static mesh, we've got the s.m stairs, a one.
Now, if we browsed this asset using the little magnifying glass and open it up, then we're going to
get the static mesh.
Ed opened up in Unreal.
And what we're interested in is having a look at collisions.
So see collisions.
You go to this collisions button and you can click on both the simple and complex collision that shows
you.
There's two different measures here.
The complex collision is four when we're doing fine grained physics and it's often the same as the visible
mesh.
And then there's the simple collision, which is just a kind, of course, a grain version, as we've
been saying.
And you can kind of see that difference.
That's a nice, coarse grain mesh.
And what happens if we have a look, if we've got this coarse grain, simple collision selected and
go below the floor?
As you can see, there's this massive strand going off down there into the distance.
That's must be what was causing us our collision issues.
A little bit of an error in the asset pack.
A few ways that we could deal with this one might be if you go through the collision, Mannu can remove
collision, which is entirely removing collisions.
You can then regenerate it using a bunch of different options that are built into unreeled such as you
could add a sphere for simplified collision, a capsule box 10 Dopy 2016 P.
Lots of different options here.
Auto convex collision.
We're not going to do any of that because actually we can fix this up pretty straightforwardly.
Oh yeah.
One more option would be that we could set the complex collision as the simple collision, as an option
for that in the details pain.
But we're not going to go down any of those routes because actually you can do a little bit, of course,
grain mesh editing right here.
At least we can delete some vertices.
So if we go ahead and select it while the collision mesh, simple collision meshes visible, you can
select this set of edges or the face that goes all the way down here.
And you can see that's all that selected as anything that's changed to a lighter green color.
That's how I can tell.
And if we hit delete, then you can see that goes away and it doesn't actually affect the rest of the
mesh.
The rest of the meshes pretty solid, still looks pretty much as we would want it to look.
And if we go even in this viewport, we can go over to the player collision view and you can see what
that mesh looks like.
It's a little bit funny in places, but it will work.
So if we go back to Lit.
And then go over into the sandbox, you can see now that little shard has disappeared from our player,
collisions can go back into Lette and hit play.
And now if I go over to the right and move around here, there are no collision errors whatsoever.
And because we modified that stair mesh, let's go down the hallway and try going up and down the stairs.
Yep.
The collisions that still seem to be functional are not dropping through the floor or anything.
I'm able to go up them and it's not kind of discontinuous, jerky motion.
So asked.
Their mesh is now fixed and you've learned as a result of it a little bit about how collisions are set
up against static meshes in Unreal.
The next lecture, we're gonna be going back to animations and understanding the animation blueprint
to create much more complicated animation behaviors.
I'll see you there.